README.md, before:

# ![KSQL rocket](ksq-lrocket.png) Deep Learning UDF for KSQL, the Streaming SQL for Apache Kafka



<span style="color:red">*Important: This is a fork of the KSQL project to demonstrate how to built a User-Defined Function (UDF). The projects adds a H2O Deep Learning model.*</span>

For the most up-to-date version, documentation and examples of KSQL, please go to [Confluent's official KSQL Github repository](https://github.com/confluentinc/ksql).

## Use Case: Continuous Health Checks with Anomaly Detection
The following example leverages a pre-trained analytic model within a KSQL UDF for continuous stream processing in real time to do health checks and alerting in case of risk. The Kafka ecosystem is used for model serving, monitoring and alerting.

### Deep Learning with an H2O Autoencoder for Sensor Analytics
Each row (i.e. message input from the sensor to Kafka) represents a single heartbeat and contains over 200 columns with numbers. 

The [User-Defined KSQL Function ‘AnomalyKudf’ applies an H2O Neural Network](https://github.com/kaiwaehner/ksql/blob/4.0.x/ksql-engine/src/main/java/io/confluent/ksql/function/udf/ml/AnomalyKudf.java). The class creates a new object instance of the Deep Learning model and applies it to the incoming sensor messages for detection of anomalies in real time. 

## Quick Start for KSQL Machine Learning UDF
How to test this implementation? The analytic model and its dependency is already included in this project. You just have to start a Kafka broker (including Zookeeper) and the KSQL server to send input streams for model inference. Here are the steps... 

### Set up the infrastructure
Confluent CLI needs to be set up to start a new cluster the easiest way - https://github.com/confluentinc/confluent-cli  
Alternatively, you can use an existing Kafka cluster with default broker URL (or reconfigure the ksql-server.properties file to point to your existing Kafka cluster URL).

**confluent start kafka  **

UDFs currently need to rebuild the KSQL project to include the new function.  
However, the Maven build for KSQL is already done in this project: mvn -DskipTests=true -Dcheckstyle.skip=true clean package    
If you want to change the UDF logic or add own models, then you need to rebuild the project.  

Start the KSQL Server:  
**bin/ksql-server-start config/ksql-server.properties  **

Start the KSQL CLI (or alternatively use the KSQL UI):  
**bin/ksql http://localhost:8088**

Create a Kafka Topic for this demo:  
kafka-topics \
--zookeeper localhost:2181 \
--create \
--topic HealthSensorInputTopic \
--partitions 1 \
--replication-factor 1

Create the body for a text messages (returns a prediction of 1.2104138026620321):  
echo -e "99999,2.10# 2.13# 2.19# 2.28# 2.44# 2.62# 2.80# 3.04# 3.36# 3.69# 3.97# 4.24# 4.53#4.80# 5.02# 5.21# 5.40# 5.57# 5.71# 5.79# 5.86# 5.92# 5.98# 6.02# 6.06# 6.08# 6.14# 6.18# 6.22# 6.27#6.32# 6.35# 6.38# 6.45# 6.49# 6.53# 6.57# 6.64# 6.70# 6.73# 6.78# 6.83# 6.88# 6.92# 6.94# 6.98# 7.01#7.03# 7.05# 7.06# 7.07# 7.08# 7.06# 7.04# 7.03# 6.99# 6.94# 6.88# 6.83# 6.77# 6.69# 6.60# 6.53# 6.45#6.36# 6.27# 6.19# 6.11# 6.03# 5.94# 5.88# 5.81# 5.75# 5.68# 5.62# 5.61# 5.54# 5.49# 5.45# 5.42# 5.38#5.34# 5.31# 5.30# 5.29# 5.26# 5.23# 5.23# 5.22# 5.20# 5.19# 5.18# 5.19# 5.17# 5.15# 5.14# 5.17# 5.16#5.15# 5.15# 5.15# 5.14# 5.14# 5.14# 5.15# 5.14# 5.14# 5.13# 5.15# 5.15# 5.15# 5.14# 5.16# 5.15# 5.15#5.14# 5.14# 5.15# 5.15# 5.14# 5.13# 5.14# 5.14# 5.11# 5.12# 5.12# 5.12# 5.09# 5.09# 5.09# 5.10# 5.08# 5.08# 5.08# 5.08# 5.06# 5.05# 5.06# 5.07# 5.05# 5.03# 5.03# 5.04# 5.03# 5.01# 5.01# 5.02# 5.01# 5.01#5.00# 5.00# 5.02# 5.01# 4.98# 5.00# 5.00# 5.00# 4.99# 5.00# 5.01# 5.02# 5.01# 5.03# 5.03# 5.02# 5.02#5.04# 5.04# 5.04# 5.02# 5.02# 5.01# 4.99# 4.98# 4.96# 4.96# 4.96# 4.94# 4.93# 4.93# 4.93# 4.93# 4.93# 5.02# 5.27# 5.80# 5.94# 5.58# 5.39# 5.32# 5.25# 5.21# 5.13# 4.97# 4.71# 4.39# 4.05# 3.69# 3.32# 3.05#2.99# 2.74# 2.61# 2.47# 2.35# 2.26# 2.20# 2.15# 2.10# 2.08" > /tmp/sensor-input.txt
 
Start Kafka Consumer (zero messages received yet):  
kafka-console-consumer --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --topic HealthSensorInputTopic --from-beginning
 


 
Create STREAM and SELECT Queries:  
CREATE STREAM healthsensor (eventid integer, sensorinput varchar) WITH (kafka_topic='HealthSensorInputTopic', value_format='DELIMITED');  
 
SHOW STREAMS;  

DESCRIBE healthsensor;  
 
select eventid, anomaly(SENSORINPUT) from healthsensor;  
 
 
Send first message:  
cat /tmp/sensor-input.txt | kafka-console-producer --broker-list localhost:9092 --topic HealthSensorInputTopic
 
create stream AnomalyDetection as select rowtime, eventid, CAST (anomaly(sensorinput) AS DOUBLE) as Anomaly from healthsensor;  
 
Now create a filter so that you only get specific messages (could be alerts):   
 
create stream AnomalyDetectionWithFilter as select rowtime, eventid, CAST (anomaly(sensorinput) AS DOUBLE) as Anomaly from healthsensor where CAST (anomaly(sensorinput) AS DOUBLE) >1.3;  
 
select rowtime, eventid, anomaly from AnomalyDetection;  

select rowtime, eventid, anomaly from AnomalyDetectionWithFilter;  


Create the body for another text messages. This one returns a prediction of 1.4191201699929437:    
echo -e  "33333, 6.90#6.89#6.86#6.82#6.78#6.73#6.64#6.57#6.50#6.41#6.31#6.22#6.13#6.04#5.93#5.85#5.77#5.72#5.65#5.57#5.53#5.48#5.42#5.38#5.35#5.34#5.30#5.27#5.25#5.26#5.24#5.21#5.22#5.22#5.22#5.20#5.19#5.20#5.20#5.18#5.19#5.19#5.18#5.15#5.13#5.10#5.07#5.03#4.99#5.00#5.01#5.06#5.14#5.31#5.52#5.72#5.88#6.09#6.36#6.63#6.86#7.10#7.34#7.53#7.63#7.64#7.60#7.38#6.87#6.06#5.34#5.03#4.95#4.84#4.69#4.65#4.54#4.49#4.46#4.43#4.38#4.33#4.31#4.28#4.26#4.21#4.19#4.18#4.15#4.12#4.09#4.08#4.07#4.03#4.01#4.00#3.97#3.94#3.90#3.90#3.89#3.85#3.81#3.81#3.79#3.77#3.74#3.72#3.71#3.70#3.67#3.66#3.68#3.67#3.66#3.67#3.69#3.71#3.72#3.75#3.80#3.85#3.89#3.95#4.03#4.06#4.18#4.25#4.36#4.45#4.54#4.60#4.68#4.76#4.83#4.86#4.91#4.95#4.97#4.98#5.00#5.04#5.04#5.05#5.03#5.06#5.07#5.06#5.05#5.06#5.07#5.07#5.06#5.06#5.07#5.07#5.06#5.07#5.07#5.08#5.06#5.06#5.08#5.09#5.09#5.10#5.11#5.11#5.10#5.10#5.11#5.12#5.10#5.06#5.07#5.06#5.05#5.02#5.02#5.02#5.01#4.99#4.98#5.00#5.00#5.00#5.02#5.03#5.03#5.01#5.01#5.03#5.04#5.02#5.01#5.02#5.04#5.02#5.02#5.03#5.04#5.03#5.03#5.02#5.04#5.04#5.03#5.03#5.05#5.04" > /tmp/sensor-input.txt
 
 
cat /tmp/sensor-input.txt | kafka-console-producer --broker-list localhost:9092 --topic HealthSensorInputTopic
 
 
kafka-console-consumer --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --topic AnomalyDetection --from-beginning



# Join the Confluent Community
Whether you need help, want to contribute, or are just looking for the latest news around the Apache Kafka ecosystem and Confluent, you can find out how to [connect with your fellow Confluent community members here](https://www.confluent.io/contact-us-thank-you/).

* Ask a question in the #ksql channel in Confluent's public [Confluent Community Slack](https://slackpass.io/confluentcommunity). Account registration is free and self-service.
* Join the [Confluent Google group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/confluent-platform).

If you have feedback regarding the Kafka ecosystem and Machine Learning, feel free to contact me directly via LinkedIn, Twitter or Email. Also check out my other [Kafka-ML Github project](https://github.com/kaiwaehner/kafka-streams-machine-learning-examples) where I leverage Kafka's Streams API to apply analytic models trained with H2O, TensorFlow and DeepLearning4j.

## Next Steps (hopefully) coming soon:
- Real demo sensor data (i.e. a continous stream)
- Integration with Kafka Connect
- More business logic and different analytic models in the UDF

# Contributing
Contributions to the code, examples, documentation, etc, are very much appreciated. 

- Report issues and bugs directly in [this GitHub project](https://github.com/kaiwaehner/ksql/issues).

# License
The project is licensed under the Apache License, version 2.0.

*Apache, Apache Kafka, Kafka, and associated open source project names are trademarks of the [Apache Software Foundation](https://www.apache.org/).*

Commit message:

Added info about continuous test data generation via ksql-datagen tool

README.md, after:

# ![KSQL rocket](ksq-lrocket.png) Deep Learning UDF for KSQL, the Streaming SQL for Apache Kafka



<span style="color:red">*Important: This is a fork of the KSQL project to demonstrate how to built a User-Defined Function (UDF). The projects adds a H2O Deep Learning model.*</span>

For the most up-to-date version, documentation and examples of KSQL, please go to [Confluent's official KSQL Github repository](https://github.com/confluentinc/ksql).

## Use Case: Continuous Health Checks with Anomaly Detection
The following example leverages a pre-trained analytic model within a KSQL UDF for continuous stream processing in real time to do health checks and alerting in case of risk. The Kafka ecosystem is used for model serving, monitoring and alerting.

### Deep Learning with an H2O Autoencoder for Sensor Analytics
Each row (i.e. message input from the sensor to Kafka) represents a single heartbeat and contains over 200 columns with numbers. 

The [User-Defined KSQL Function ‘AnomalyKudf’ applies an H2O Neural Network](https://github.com/kaiwaehner/ksql/blob/4.0.x/ksql-engine/src/main/java/io/confluent/ksql/function/udf/ml/AnomalyKudf.java). The class creates a new object instance of the Deep Learning model and applies it to the incoming sensor messages for detection of anomalies in real time. 

## Quick Start for KSQL Machine Learning UDF
How to test this implementation? The analytic model and its dependency is already included in this project. You just have to start a Kafka broker (including Zookeeper) and the KSQL server to send input streams for model inference. Here are the steps... 

### Set up the infrastructure
Confluent CLI needs to be set up to start a new cluster the easiest way - https://github.com/confluentinc/confluent-cli  
Alternatively, you can use an existing Kafka cluster with default broker URL (or reconfigure the ksql-server.properties file to point to your existing Kafka cluster URL).

**confluent start kafka  **

UDFs currently need to rebuild the KSQL project to include the new function.  
However, the Maven build for KSQL is already done in this project: mvn -DskipTests=true -Dcheckstyle.skip=true clean package    
If you want to change the UDF logic or add own models, then you need to rebuild the project.  

Start the KSQL Server:  
**bin/ksql-server-start config/ksql-server.properties  **

Start the KSQL CLI (or alternatively use the KSQL UI):  
**bin/ksql http://localhost:8088**

The following creates topics and test data manually so that you can follow each step. Instead, you can also use the ksql-datagen tool (part of KSQL project) to generate test data. You just need to provide an Avro file. Here is the file to create a continuous random test data sensor feed: https://github.com/kaiwaehner/confluent-live-demo-scripts-and-docs/blob/master/anomaly-detection-autoencoder/EcdSensorData.avro

Create a Kafka Topic for this demo:  
kafka-topics \
--zookeeper localhost:2181 \
--create \
--topic HealthSensorInputTopic \
--partitions 1 \
--replication-factor 1

Create the body for a text messages (returns a prediction of 1.2104138026620321):  
echo -e "99999,2.10# 2.13# 2.19# 2.28# 2.44# 2.62# 2.80# 3.04# 3.36# 3.69# 3.97# 4.24# 4.53#4.80# 5.02# 5.21# 5.40# 5.57# 5.71# 5.79# 5.86# 5.92# 5.98# 6.02# 6.06# 6.08# 6.14# 6.18# 6.22# 6.27#6.32# 6.35# 6.38# 6.45# 6.49# 6.53# 6.57# 6.64# 6.70# 6.73# 6.78# 6.83# 6.88# 6.92# 6.94# 6.98# 7.01#7.03# 7.05# 7.06# 7.07# 7.08# 7.06# 7.04# 7.03# 6.99# 6.94# 6.88# 6.83# 6.77# 6.69# 6.60# 6.53# 6.45#6.36# 6.27# 6.19# 6.11# 6.03# 5.94# 5.88# 5.81# 5.75# 5.68# 5.62# 5.61# 5.54# 5.49# 5.45# 5.42# 5.38#5.34# 5.31# 5.30# 5.29# 5.26# 5.23# 5.23# 5.22# 5.20# 5.19# 5.18# 5.19# 5.17# 5.15# 5.14# 5.17# 5.16#5.15# 5.15# 5.15# 5.14# 5.14# 5.14# 5.15# 5.14# 5.14# 5.13# 5.15# 5.15# 5.15# 5.14# 5.16# 5.15# 5.15#5.14# 5.14# 5.15# 5.15# 5.14# 5.13# 5.14# 5.14# 5.11# 5.12# 5.12# 5.12# 5.09# 5.09# 5.09# 5.10# 5.08# 5.08# 5.08# 5.08# 5.06# 5.05# 5.06# 5.07# 5.05# 5.03# 5.03# 5.04# 5.03# 5.01# 5.01# 5.02# 5.01# 5.01#5.00# 5.00# 5.02# 5.01# 4.98# 5.00# 5.00# 5.00# 4.99# 5.00# 5.01# 5.02# 5.01# 5.03# 5.03# 5.02# 5.02#5.04# 5.04# 5.04# 5.02# 5.02# 5.01# 4.99# 4.98# 4.96# 4.96# 4.96# 4.94# 4.93# 4.93# 4.93# 4.93# 4.93# 5.02# 5.27# 5.80# 5.94# 5.58# 5.39# 5.32# 5.25# 5.21# 5.13# 4.97# 4.71# 4.39# 4.05# 3.69# 3.32# 3.05#2.99# 2.74# 2.61# 2.47# 2.35# 2.26# 2.20# 2.15# 2.10# 2.08" > /tmp/sensor-input.txt
 
Start Kafka Consumer (zero messages received yet):  
kafka-console-consumer --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --topic HealthSensorInputTopic --from-beginning
 


 
Create STREAM and SELECT Queries:  
CREATE STREAM healthsensor (eventid integer, sensorinput varchar) WITH (kafka_topic='HealthSensorInputTopic', value_format='DELIMITED');  
 
SHOW STREAMS;  

DESCRIBE healthsensor;  
 
select eventid, anomaly(SENSORINPUT) from healthsensor;  
 
 
Send first message:  
cat /tmp/sensor-input.txt | kafka-console-producer --broker-list localhost:9092 --topic HealthSensorInputTopic
 
create stream AnomalyDetection as select rowtime, eventid, CAST (anomaly(sensorinput) AS DOUBLE) as Anomaly from healthsensor;  
 
Now create a filter so that you only get specific messages (could be alerts):   
 
create stream AnomalyDetectionWithFilter as select rowtime, eventid, CAST (anomaly(sensorinput) AS DOUBLE) as Anomaly from healthsensor where CAST (anomaly(sensorinput) AS DOUBLE) >1.3;  
 
select rowtime, eventid, anomaly from AnomalyDetection;  

select rowtime, eventid, anomaly from AnomalyDetectionWithFilter;  


Create the body for another text messages. This one returns a prediction of 1.4191201699929437:    
echo -e  "33333, 6.90#6.89#6.86#6.82#6.78#6.73#6.64#6.57#6.50#6.41#6.31#6.22#6.13#6.04#5.93#5.85#5.77#5.72#5.65#5.57#5.53#5.48#5.42#5.38#5.35#5.34#5.30#5.27#5.25#5.26#5.24#5.21#5.22#5.22#5.22#5.20#5.19#5.20#5.20#5.18#5.19#5.19#5.18#5.15#5.13#5.10#5.07#5.03#4.99#5.00#5.01#5.06#5.14#5.31#5.52#5.72#5.88#6.09#6.36#6.63#6.86#7.10#7.34#7.53#7.63#7.64#7.60#7.38#6.87#6.06#5.34#5.03#4.95#4.84#4.69#4.65#4.54#4.49#4.46#4.43#4.38#4.33#4.31#4.28#4.26#4.21#4.19#4.18#4.15#4.12#4.09#4.08#4.07#4.03#4.01#4.00#3.97#3.94#3.90#3.90#3.89#3.85#3.81#3.81#3.79#3.77#3.74#3.72#3.71#3.70#3.67#3.66#3.68#3.67#3.66#3.67#3.69#3.71#3.72#3.75#3.80#3.85#3.89#3.95#4.03#4.06#4.18#4.25#4.36#4.45#4.54#4.60#4.68#4.76#4.83#4.86#4.91#4.95#4.97#4.98#5.00#5.04#5.04#5.05#5.03#5.06#5.07#5.06#5.05#5.06#5.07#5.07#5.06#5.06#5.07#5.07#5.06#5.07#5.07#5.08#5.06#5.06#5.08#5.09#5.09#5.10#5.11#5.11#5.10#5.10#5.11#5.12#5.10#5.06#5.07#5.06#5.05#5.02#5.02#5.02#5.01#4.99#4.98#5.00#5.00#5.00#5.02#5.03#5.03#5.01#5.01#5.03#5.04#5.02#5.01#5.02#5.04#5.02#5.02#5.03#5.04#5.03#5.03#5.02#5.04#5.04#5.03#5.03#5.05#5.04" > /tmp/sensor-input.txt
 
 
cat /tmp/sensor-input.txt | kafka-console-producer --broker-list localhost:9092 --topic HealthSensorInputTopic
 
 
kafka-console-consumer --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --topic AnomalyDetection --from-beginning



# Join the Confluent Community
Whether you need help, want to contribute, or are just looking for the latest news around the Apache Kafka ecosystem and Confluent, you can find out how to [connect with your fellow Confluent community members here](https://www.confluent.io/contact-us-thank-you/).

* Ask a question in the #ksql channel in Confluent's public [Confluent Community Slack](https://slackpass.io/confluentcommunity). Account registration is free and self-service.
* Join the [Confluent Google group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/confluent-platform).

If you have feedback regarding the Kafka ecosystem and Machine Learning, feel free to contact me directly via LinkedIn, Twitter or Email. Also check out my other [Kafka-ML Github project](https://github.com/kaiwaehner/kafka-streams-machine-learning-examples) where I leverage Kafka's Streams API to apply analytic models trained with H2O, TensorFlow and DeepLearning4j.

## Next Steps (hopefully) coming soon:
- Real demo sensor data (i.e. a continous stream)
- Integration with Kafka Connect
- More business logic and different analytic models in the UDF

# Contributing
Contributions to the code, examples, documentation, etc, are very much appreciated. 

- Report issues and bugs directly in [this GitHub project](https://github.com/kaiwaehner/ksql/issues).

# License
The project is licensed under the Apache License, version 2.0.

*Apache, Apache Kafka, Kafka, and associated open source project names are trademarks of the [Apache Software Foundation](https://www.apache.org/).*
